—INTERNATIONAL—
Exemptions

Rule 38—CONTINUED
(d) (continued)
(ii) The repositioning of masthead lights on vessels of 150 m or more in
length, resulting from the prescriptions of section 3(a) of annex I to these
Regulations, until nine years after the date of entry into force of these
Regulations.
(e) The repositioning of masthead lights resulting from the prescriptions of
section 2(b) of annex I to these Regulations, until nine years after the date of
entry into force of these Regulations.
(f) The repositioning of sidelights resulting from the prescriptions of sections
2(g) and 3(b) of annex I to these Regulations, until nine years after the date of
entry into force of these Regulations.
(g) The requirements for sound signal appliances prescribed in annex III to
these Regulations, until nine years after the date of entry into force of these
Regulations.
(h) The repositioning of all-round lights resulting from the prescription of
section 9(b) of annex I to these Regulations, permanent exemption.

110

—INLAND—
Exemptions

[BLANK]

111

—INTERNATIONAL—
Annex I

Positioning and Technical Details of Lights and Shapes
1. Definition
The term height above the hull means height above the uppermost continuous
deck. This height shall be measured from the position vertically beneath the
location of the light.

2. Vertical positioning and spacing of lights
(a) On a power-driven vessel of 20 meters or more in length the masthead
lights shall be placed as follows:
(i) the forward masthead light, or if only one masthead light is carried, then
that light, at a height above the hull of not less than 6 meters, and, if the breadth
of the vessel exceeds 6 meters, then at a height above the hull not less than such
breadth, so however that the light need not be placed at a greater height above
the hull than 12 meters;
(ii) when two masthead lights are carried the after one shall be at least 4.5
meters vertically higher than the forward one.
(b) The vertical separation of masthead lights of power-driven vessels shall be
such that in all normal conditions of trim the after light will be seen over and
separate from the forward light at a distance of 1000 meters from the stem when
viewed from sea level.
(c) The masthead light of a power-driven vessel of 12 meters but less than 20
meters in length shall be placed at a height above the gunwale of not less than 2.5
meters.
(d) A power-driven vessel of less than 12 meters in length may carry the
uppermost light at a height of less than 2.5 meters above the gunwale. When,
however, a masthead light is carried in addition to sidelights and a sternlight or
the all-round light prescribed in rule 23(d)(i) is carried in addition to sidelights,
then such masthead light or all-round light shall be carried at least 1 meter higher
than the sidelights.

112

—INLAND—

Annex I
33 CFR 84
Positioning and Technical Details of Lights and Shapes
§ 84.01 Definitions
(a) The term height above the hull means height above the uppermost continuous
deck. This height shall be measured from the position vertically beneath the
location of the light.
(b) High-speed craft means a craft capable of maximum speed in meters per
second (m/s) equal to or exceeding: 3.7∇0.1667; where ∇ = displacement
corresponding to the design waterline (cubic meters).
NOTE TO PARAGRAPH (b): The same formula expressed in pounds and knots is
maximum speed in knots (kts) equal to exceeding 1.98(lbs) 3.7∇0.1667; where
∇=displacement corresponding to design waterline in pounds.

(c) The term practical cut-off means, for vessels 20 meters or more in length, 12.5
percent of the minimum luminous intensity (Table 84.15(b)) corresponding to
the greatest range of visibility for which the requirements of Annex I (33 CFR
part 84) are met.
(d) The term Rule or Rules has the same meaning as in 33 CFR 83.03(r).

§ 84.02 Vertical positioning and spacing of lights
(a) On a power-driven vessel of 20 meters or more in length the masthead
lights shall be placed as follows:
(i) The forward masthead light, or if only one masthead light is carried,
then that light, at a height above the hull of not less than 5 meters, and, if
the breadth of the vessel exceeds 5 meters, then at a height above the hull
not less than such breadth, so however that the light need not be placed at
a greater height above the hull than 8 meters.
(ii) When two masthead lights are carried the after one shall be at least 2
meters vertically higher than the forward one.
(b) The vertical separation of the masthead lights of power-driven vessels shall
be such that in all normal conditions of trim the after light will be seen over and
separate from the forward light at a distance of 1000 meters from the stem when
viewed from water level.
(c) The masthead light of a power-driven vessel of 12 meters but less than 20
meters in length shall be placed at a height above the gunwale of not less than 2.5
meters.
(d) The masthead light, or the all-round light described in Rule 23(d)(§ 83.23(d)
of this chapter), of a power-driven vessel of less than 12 meters in length shall be
carried at least one meter higher than the sidelights.

113

—INTERNATIONAL—
Annex I—CONTINUED

(e) One of the two or three masthead lights prescribed for a power-driven
vessel when engaged in towing or pushing another vessel shall be placed in the
same position as either the forward masthead light or the after masthead light;
provided that, if carried on the aftermast, the lowest after masthead light shall be
at least 4.5 meters vertically higher than the forward masthead light.
(f) (i) The masthead light or lights prescribed in Rule 23(a) shall be so placed
as to be above and clear of all other lights and obstructions except as
described in subparagraph (ii).
(ii) When it is impracticable to carry the all-round lights prescribed by Rule
27(b)(i) or Rule 28 below the masthead lights, they may be carried above
the after masthead light(s) or vertically in between the forward masthead
light(s) and after masthead light(s), provided that in the latter case the
requirement of Section 3(c) of this Annex shall be complied with.
(g) The sidelights of a power-driven vessel shall be placed at a height above the
hull not greater than three quarters of that of the forward masthead light. They
shall not be so low as to be interfered with by deck lights.
(h) The sidelights, if in a combined lantern and carried on a power-driven
vessel of less than 20 meters in length, shall be placed not less than 1 meter below
the masthead light.
(i) When the Rules prescribe two or three lights to be carried in a vertical line,
they shall be spaced as follows:
(i) on a vessel of 20 meters in length or more such lights shall be spaced not
less than 2 meters apart, and the lowest of these lights shall, except where
a towing light is required, be placed at a height of not less than 4 meters
above the hull;
(ii) on a vessel of less than 20 meters in length such lights shall be spaced
not less than 1 meter apart and the lowest of these lights shall, except where
a towing light is required, be placed at a height of not less than 2 meters
above the gunwale;
(iii) when three lights are carried they shall be equally spaced.
(j) The lower of the two all-round lights prescribed for a vessel when engaged
in fishing shall be at a height above the sidelights not less than twice the distance
between the two vertical lights.
(k) The forward anchor light prescribed in Rule 30(a)(i), when two are carried,
shall not be less than 4.5 meters above the after one. On a vessel of 50 meters or
more in length this forward anchor light shall be placed at a height of not less
than 6 meters above the hull.

114

—INLAND—

Annex I—CONTINUED
(e) One of the two or three masthead lights prescribed for a power-driven
vessel when engaged in towing or pushing another vessel shall be placed in the
same position as either the forward masthead light or the after masthead light,
provided that the lowest after masthead light shall be at least 2 meters vertically
higher than the highest forward masthead light.
(f) (i) The masthead light or lights prescribed in Rule 23(a) (§ 83.23(a)of this
chapter) shall be so placed as to be above and clear of all other lights and
obstructions except as described in paragraph (f)(ii) of this section.
(ii) When it is impracticable to carry the all-round lights prescribed in Rule
27(b)(i) (§ 83.27(b)(i)of this chapter) below the masthead lights, they may
be carried above the after masthead light(s) or vertically in between the
forward masthead light(s) and after masthead light(s), provided that in the
latter case the requirement of § 84.03(c) shall be complied with.
(g) The sidelights of a power-driven vessel shall be placed at least one meter
lower than the forward masthead light. They shall not be so low as to be
interfered with by deck lights.
(h) [Reserved]
(i) When the Rules in this subchapter E ‡ prescribe two or three lights to be
carried in a vertical line, they shall be spaced as follows:
(i) On a vessel of 20 meters in length or more such lights shall be spaced
not less than 1 meter apart, and the lowest of these lights shall, except where
a towing light is required, be placed at a height of not less than 4 meters
above the hull;
(ii) On a vessel of less than 20 meters in length such lights shall be spaced
not less than 1 meter apart and the lowest of these lights shall, except where
a towing light is required, be placed at a height of not less than 2 meters
above the gunwale;
(iii) When three lights are carried they shall be equally spaced.
(j) The lower of the two all-round lights prescribed for a vessel when engaged
in fishing shall be at a height above the sidelights not less than twice the distance
between the two vertical lights.
(k) The forward anchor light prescribed in Rule 30(a)(i) (§ 83.30(a)(i)), when
two are carried, shall not be less than 4.5 meters above the after one. On a vessel
of 50 meters or more in length this forward anchor light shall be placed at a height
of not less than 6 meters above the hull.

‡

Parts 83-90 of Title 33 Code of Federal Regulations.

115

—INTERNATIONAL—
Annex I—CONTINUED

3. Horizontal positioning and spacing of lights
(a) When two masthead lights are prescribed for a power-driven vessel, the
horizontal distance between them shall not be less than one half of the length of
the vessel but need not be more than 100 meters. The forward light shall be
placed not more than one quarter of the length of the vessel from the stem.
(b) On a power-driven vessel of 20 meters or more in length the sidelights shall
not be placed in front of the forward masthead lights. They shall be placed at or
near the side of the vessel.
(c) When the lights prescribed in Rule 27(b)(i) or Rule 28 are placed vertically
between the forward masthead light(s) and the after masthead light(s) these allround lights shall be placed at a horizontal distance of not less than 2 meters from
the fore and aft centerline of the vessel in the athwartship direction.
(d) When only one masthead light is prescribed for a power-driven vessel, this
light shall be exhibited forward of amidships; except that a vessel of less than 20
meters in length need not exhibit this light forward of amidships but shall exhibit
it as far forward as is practicable.

4. Details of location of direction-indicating lights for fishing vessels,
dredgers and vessels engaged in underwater operations
(a) The light indicating the direction of the outlying gear from a vessel engaged
in fishing as prescribed in Rule 26(c)(ii) shall be placed at a horizontal distance of
not less than 2 meters and not more than 6 meters away from the two all-round
red and white lights. This light shall be placed not higher than the all-round white
light prescribed in Rule 26(c)(i) and not lower than the sidelights.
(b) The lights and shapes on a vessel engaged in dredging or underwater
operations to indicate the obstructed side and/or the side on which it is safe to
pass, as prescribed in Rule 27(d)(i) and (ii), shall be placed at the maximum
practical horizontal distance, but in no case less than 2 meters, from the lights or
shapes prescribed in Rule 27(b)(i) and (ii). In no case shall the upper of these
lights or shapes be at a greater height than the lower of the three lights or shapes
prescribed in Rule 27(b)(i) and (ii).

116

—INLAND—

Annex I—CONTINUED
§ 84.03 Horizontal positioning and spacing of lights
(a) Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, when two masthead
lights are prescribed for a power-driven vessel, the horizontal distance between
them must not be less than one quarter of the length of the vessel but need not
be more than 50 meters. The forward light must be placed not more than one
half of the length of the vessel from the stem.
(b) On a power-driven vessel of 20 meters or more in length the sidelights shall
not be placed in front of the forward masthead lights. They shall be placed at or
near the side of the vessel.
(c) When the lights prescribed in Rule 27(b)(i) (§ 83.27(b)(i) of this chapter) are
placed vertically between the forward masthead light(s) and the after masthead
light(s), these all-round lights shall be placed at a horizontal distance of not less
than 2 meters from the fore and aft centerline of the vessel in the athwartship
direction.
(d) When only one masthead light is prescribed for a power-driven vessel, this
light must be exhibited forward of amidships. For a vessel of less than 20 meters
in length, the vessel shall exhibit one masthead light as far forward as is
practicable.
(e) On power-driven vessels 50 meters but less than 60 meters in length
operated on the Western Rivers, and those waters specified in § 89.25 of this
chapter, the horizontal distance between masthead lights shall not be less than 10
meters.
§ 84.04 Details of location of direction-indicating lights for fishing vessels,
dredgers and vessels engaged in underwater operations
(a) The light indicating the direction of the outlying gear from a vessel engaged
in fishing as prescribed in Rule 26(c)(ii) (§ 83.26(c)(ii) of this chapter) shall be
placed at a horizontal distance of not less than 2 meters and not more than 6
meters away from the two all-round red and white lights. This light shall be placed
not higher than the all-round white light prescribed in Rule 26(c)(i) (§ 83.26(c)(i)
of this chapter) and not lower than the sidelights.
(b) The lights and shapes on a vessel engaged in dredging or underwater
operations to indicate the obstructed side and/or the side on which it is safe to
pass, as prescribed in Rule 27(d)(i) and (ii) (§ 83.27(d)(i) and (ii) of this chapter),
shall be placed at the maximum practical horizontal distance, but in no case less
than 2 meters, from the lights or shapes prescribed in Rule 27(b)(i) and (i) (§
83.27(b)(i) and (ii) of this chapter). In no case shall the upper of these lights or
shapes be at a greater height than the lower of the three lights or shapes
prescribed in Rule 27(b)(i) and (ii) (§ 83.27)(b)(i) and (ii) of this chapter).

117

—INTERNATIONAL—
Annex I—CONTINUED

5. Screens for sidelights
The sidelights of vessels of 20 meters or more in length shall be fitted with
inboard screens painted matt black, and meeting the requirements of Section 9
of this Annex. On vessels of less than 20 meters in length the sidelights, if
necessary to meet the requirements of Section 9 of this Annex, shall be fitted with
inboard matt black screens. With a combined lantern, using a single vertical
filament and a very narrow division between the green and red sections, external
screens need not be fitted.

6. Shapes
(a) Shapes shall be black and of the following sizes:
(i) a ball shall have a diameter of not less than 0.6 meter;
(ii) a cone shall have a base diameter of not less than 0.6 meter and a height
equal to its diameter;
(iii) a cylinder shall have a diameter of at least 0.6 meter and a height of twice
its diameter;
(iv) a diamond shape shall consist of two cones as defined in (ii) above
having a common base.
(b) The vertical distance between shapes shall be at least 1.5 meter.
(c) In a vessel of less than 20 meters in length shapes of lesser dimensions but
commensurate with the size of the vessel may be used and the distance apart may
be correspondingly reduced.
7. Color specification of lights
The chromaticity of all navigation lights shall conform to the following
standards, which lie within the boundaries of the area of the diagram specified
for each color by the International Commission on Illumination (CIE).

118

—INLAND—

Annex I—CONTINUED
§ 84.05 Screens
(a) The sidelights of vessels of 20 meters or more in length shall be fitted with
matt black inboard screens and meet the requirements of § 84.15. On vessels of
less than 20 meters in length, the sidelights, if necessary to meet the requirements
of § 84.15, shall be fitted with matt black inboard screens. With a combined
lantern, using a single vertical filament and a very narrow division between the
green and red sections, external screens need not be fitted.
(b) On power-driven vessels less than 12 meters in length constructed after
July 31, 1983, the masthead light, or the all-round light described in Rule 23(d) (§
83.23(d) of this chapter) shall be screened to prevent direct illumination of the
vessel forward of the operator’s position.
§ 84.06 Shapes
(a) Shapes shall be black and of the following sizes:
(i) A ball shall have a diameter of not less than 0.6 meter.
(ii) A cone shall have a base diameter of not less than 0.6 meters and a
height equal to its diameter.
(iii) A diamond shape shall consist of two cones (as defined in paragraph
(a)(ii) of this section) having a common base.
(b) The vertical distance between shapes shall be at least 1.5 meters.
(c) In a vessel of less than 20 meters in length shapes of lesser dimensions but
commensurate with the size of the vessel may be used and the distance apart may
be correspondingly reduced.
§ 84.13 Color specification of lights
(a) The chromaticity of all navigation lights shall conform to the following
standards, which lie within the boundaries of the area of the diagram specified for
each color by the International Commission on Illumination (CIE), in the “Colors of
Light Signals”, which is incorporated by reference. It is Publication CIE No. 2.2. (TC1.6), 1975, and is available from the Illumination Engineering Society, 345 East 47th
Street, New York, NY 10017 and is available for inspection at the Coast Guard Coast
Guard Headquarters. Contact Commandant (CG–43), Attn: Office of Civil
Engineering, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7714, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE.,
Washington, DC 20593–7714. It is also available for inspection at the National
Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of
this material at NARA, call 202–741–6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locatio
ns.html. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal
Register.

119

—INTERNATIONAL—
Annex I—CONTINUED

The boundaries of the area for each color are given by indicating the corner
coordinates, which are as follows:
(i) White:
x 0.525
0.525
0.452
0.310
0.310
0.443
y 0.382
0.440
0.440
0.348
0.283
0.382
(ii) Green:
x 0.028
0.009
0.300
0.203
y 0.385
0.723
0.511
0.356
(iii) Red:
x 0.680
0.660
0.735 0.721
y 0.320
0.320
0.265 0.259
(iv) Yellow:
x 0.612
0.618
0.575 0.575
y 0.382
0.382
0.425
0.406
8. Intensity of lights
(a) The minimum luminous intensity of lights shall be calculated by using the
formula:
I = 3.43 x 106 x T x D2 x K-D
where:

I is luminous intensity in candelas under service conditions,
T is threshold factor 2 x 10-7 lux,
D is range of visibility (luminous range) of the light in nautical miles,
K is atmospheric transmissivity. For prescribed lights the value of K shall be 0.8,
corresponding to a meteorological visibility of approximately 13 nautical miles.

(b) A selection of figures derived from the formula is given in the following
table:
Range of visibility(luminous range) of
light in nautical miles

Luminous intensity of light in
candelas for K = 0.8

D

I

1
2
3
4
5
6

0.9
4.3
12
27
52
94

NOTE: The maximum luminous intensity of navigation lights should be limited to avoid undue glare.
This shall not be achieved by a variable control of the luminous intensity.

120

—INLAND—

Annex I—CONTINUED
(b) The boundaries of the area for each color are given by indicating the corner
co-ordinates, which are as follows:
(i) White:
x 0.525
0.525
0.452
0.310
0.310
0.443
y 0.382
0.440
0.440
0.348
0.283
0.382
(ii) Green:
x 0.028
0.009
0.300
0.203
y 0.385
0.723
0.511
0.356
(iii) Red:
x 0.680
0.660
0.735
0.721
y 0.320
0.320
0.265
0.259
(iv) Yellow:
x 0.612
0.618
0.575
0.575
y 0.382
0.382
0.425
0.406
§ 84.14 Intensity of lights
(a) The minimum luminous intensity of lights shall be calculated by using the
formula:
I = 3.43 x 106 x T x D2 x K-D
where:

I is luminous intensity in candelas under service conditions,
T is threshold factor 2 x 10-7 lux,
D is range of visibility (luminous range) of the light in nautical miles,
K is atmospheric transmissivity. For prescribed lights the value of K shall be 0.8,
corresponding to a meteorological visibility of approximately 13 nautical miles.

(b) A selection of figures derived from the formula is given in the following
table (Table 84.14(b)).
Table 84.14(b)

Range of visibility (luminous range) of
light in nautical miles

Minimum luminous intensity of light in
candelas for K = 0.8

D

I

1
2
3
4
5
6

0.9
4.3
12
27
52
94

121

—INTERNATIONAL—
Annex I—CONTINUED

9. Horizontal sectors
(a) (i) In the forward direction, sidelights as fitted on the vessel shall show the
minimum required intensities. The intensities shall decrease to reach
practical cut-off between 1° and 3° outside the prescribed sectors.
(ii) For sternlights and masthead lights and at 22.5° abaft the beam for
sidelights, the minimum required intensities shall be maintained over the
arc of the horizon up to 5° within the limits of the sectors prescribed in
Rule 21. From 5° within the prescribed sectors the intensity may decrease
by 50% up to the prescribed limits; it shall decrease steadily to reach
practical cut-off at not more than 5° outside the prescribed sectors.
(b) (i) All-round lights shall be so located as not to be obscured by masts,
topmasts or structures within angular sectors of more than 6°, except
anchor lights prescribed in Rule 30, which need not be placed at an
impracticable height above the hull.
(ii) If it is impracticable to comply with paragraph (b)(i) of this section by
exhibiting only one all-round light, two all-round lights shall be used
suitably positioned or screened so that they appear, as far as practicable, as
one light at a distance of one mile.

10. Vertical sectors
(a) The vertical sectors of electric lights as fitted, with the exception of lights
on sailing vessels underway, shall ensure that:
(i) at least the required minimum intensity is maintained at all angles from
5° above to 5° below the horizontal;
(ii) at least 60% of the required minimum intensity is maintained from 7.5°
above to 7.5° below the horizontal.
(b) In the case of sailing vessels underway the vertical sectors of electric lights
as fitted shall ensure that:
(i) at least the required minimum intensity is maintained at all angles from
5° above to 5° below the horizontal;
(ii) at least 50% of the required minimum intensity is maintained from 25°
above to 25° below the horizontal.
(c) In the case of lights other than electric these specifications shall be met as
closely as possible.

122

—INLAND—

Annex I—CONTINUED
§ 84.15 Horizontal sectors
(a) (i) In the forward direction, sidelights as fitted on the vessel shall show the
minimum required intensities. The intensities shall decrease to reach
practical cut-off between 1 and 3 degrees outside the prescribed sectors.
(ii) For sternlights and masthead lights and at 22.5 degrees abaft the beam
for sidelights, the minimum required intensities shall be maintained over
the arc of the horizon up to 5 degrees within the limits of the sectors
prescribed in Rule 21 (§ 83.21 of this chapter). From 5 degrees within the
prescribed sectors the intensity may decrease by 50 percent up to the
prescribed limits; it shall decrease steadily to reach practical cutoff at not
more than 5 degrees outside the prescribed sectors.
(b) (i) All-round lights shall be so located as not to be obscured by masts,
topmasts or structures within angular sectors of more than 6 degrees, except
anchor lights prescribed in Rule 30 (§ 83.30 of this chapter), which need not
be placed at an impracticable height above the hull, and the all-round white
light described in Rule 23(e) (§ 83.23(e) of this chapter), which may not be
obscured at all.
(ii) If it is impracticable to comply with paragraph (b) (i) of this section by
exhibiting only one all-round light, two all-round lights shall be used suitably
positioned or screened to appear, as far as practicable, as one light at a
minimum distance of one nautical mile.
NOTE TO PARAGRAPH (b)(ii): Two unscreened all-round lights that are 1.28 meters apart
or less will appear as one light to the naked eye at a distance of one nautical mile.

§ 84.16 Vertical sectors
(a) The vertical sectors of electric lights as fitted, with the exception of lights
on sailing vessels underway and on unmanned barges, shall ensure that:
(i) At least the required minimum intensity is maintained at all angles from
5 degrees above to 5 degrees below the horizontal;
(ii) At least 60 percent of the required minimum intensity is maintained
from 7.5 degrees above to 7.5 degrees below the horizontal.
(b) In the case of sailing vessels underway, the vertical sectors of electric lights
as fitted shall ensure that:
(i) At least the required minimum intensity is maintained at all angles from
5 degrees above to 5 degrees below the horizontal;
(ii) At least 50 percent of the required minimum intensity is maintained
from 25 degrees above to 25 degrees below the horizontal.
(c) In the case of unmanned barges the minimum required intensity of electric
lights as fitted shall be maintained on the horizontal.
(d) In the case of lights other than electric lights these specifications shall be
met as closely as possible.

123

—INTERNATIONAL—
Annex I—CONTINUED

11. Intensity of non-electric lights
Non-electric lights shall so far as practicable comply with the minimum
intensities, as specified in the Table given in Section 8 of this Annex.
12. Maneuvering light
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2(f) of this annex, the
maneuvering light described in Rule 34(b) shall be placed in the same fore and
aft vertical plane as the masthead light or lights and, where practicable, at a
minimum height of 2 meters vertically above the forward masthead light,
provided that it shall be carried not less than 2 meters vertically above or below
the after masthead light. On a vessel where only one masthead light is carried, the
maneuvering light, if fitted, shall be carried where it can best be seen, not less
than 2 meters vertically apart from the masthead light.
13. High-speed Craft *
(a) The masthead light of high-speed craft may be placed at a height related to
the breadth of the craft lower than that prescribed in paragraph 2(a)(i) of this
annex, provided that the base angle of the isosceles triangles formed by the
sidelights and masthead light, when seen in end elevation, is not less than 27°.
(b) On high-speed craft of 50 meters or more in length, the vertical separation
between foremast and mainmast light of 4.5 meters required by paragraph 2(a)(ii)
of this annex may be modified provided that such distance shall not be less than
the value determined by the following formula:

y=
where:

y
a
Ψ
C

(a + 17Ψ )C
+2
1000

is the height of the mainmast light above the foremast light in meters;
is the height of the foremast light above the water surface in service
condition in meters;
is the trim in service conditions in degrees;
is the horizontal separation of masthead lights in meters.

* Refer to the International Code of Safety for High-Speed Craft, 1994 and the International
Code of Safety for High-Speed Craft, 2000.

14. Approval
The construction of lights and shapes and the installation of lights on board
the vessel shall be to the satisfaction of the appropriate authority of the State
whose flag the vessel is entitled to fly.

124

—INLAND—

Annex I—CONTINUED
§ 84.17 Intensity of non-electric lights
Non-electric lights shall so far as practicable comply with the minimum
intensities, as specified in the Table 84.14(b).
§ 84.18 Maneuvering light
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 84.02(f), the maneuvering light described
in Rule 34(b) (§ 83.34(b) of this chapter) shall be placed approximately in the
same fore and aft vertical plane as the masthead light or lights and, where
practicable, at a minimum height of one-half meter vertically above the forward
masthead light, provided that it shall be carried not less than one-half meter
vertically above or below the after masthead light. On a vessel where only one
masthead light is carried the maneuvering light, if fitted, shall be carried where it
can best be seen, not less than one-half meter vertically apart from the masthead
light.
§ 84.19 High-speed Craft
(a) The masthead light of high-speed craft may be placed at a height related to
the breadth lower than that prescribed in § 84.02(a)(i), provided that the base
angle of the isosceles triangle formed by the sidelights and masthead light when
seen in end elevation is not less than 27°.
(b) On high-speed craft of 50 meters or more in length, the vertical separation
between foremast and mainmast light of 4.5 meters required by § 84.02(k) may
be modified provided that such distance shall not be less than the value
determined by the following formula:

y=
where:

y
a
Ψ
C

(a + 17Ψ )C
+ 2;
1000

is the height of the mainmast light above the foremast light in meters;
is the height of the foremast light above the water surface in service
condition in meters;
is the trim in service condition in degrees;
is the horizontal separation of masthead lights in meters.

NOTE TO § 84.19: Refer to the International Code of Safety for High-Speed Craft, 1994 and
the International Code of Safety for High-Speed Craft, 2000

§ 84.20 Approval
The construction of lights and shapes and the installation of lights on board a
vessel must satisfy the Commandant, U. S. Coast Guard.

125

—INTERNATIONAL—
Annex II

Additional Signals for Fishing Vessels
Fishing in Close Proximity
1. General
The lights mentioned herein shall, if exhibited in pursuance of Rule 26(d), be
placed where they can best be seen. They shall be at least 0.9 meter apart but at a
lower level than lights prescribed in Rule 26(b)(i) and (c)(i). The lights shall be
visible all around the horizon at a distance of at least 1 mile but at a lesser distance
than the lights prescribed by these Rules for fishing vessels.
2. Signals for trawlers
(a) Vessels of 20 meters or more in length when engaged in trawling, whether
using demersal or pelagic gear, shall exhibit:
(i) when shooting their nets: two white lights in a vertical line;
(ii) when hauling their nets: one white light over one red light in a vertical
line;
(iii) when the net has come fast upon an obstruction: two red lights in a
vertical line.
(b) Each vessel of 20 meters or more in length engaged in pair trawling shall
exhibit:
(i) by night, a searchlight directed forward and in the direction of the other
vessel of the pair;
(ii) when shooting or hauling their nets or when their nets have come fast
upon an obstruction, the lights prescribed in 2(a) above.
(c) A vessel of less than 20 meters in length engaged in trawling, whether using
demersal or pelagic gear, or engaged in pair trawling, may exhibit the lights
prescribed in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, as appropriate.
3. Signals for purse seiners
Vessels engaged in fishing with purse seine gear may exhibit two yellow lights
in a vertical line. These lights shall flash alternately every second and with equal
light and occultation duration. These lights may be exhibited only when the vessel
is hampered by its fishing gear.

126

—INLAND—
Annex II
33 CFR 85

§ 85.01. [Reserved]

127

—INTERNATIONAL—
Annex III

Technical Details of Sound Signal Appliances
1. Whistles
(a) Frequencies and range of audibility
The fundamental frequency of the signal shall lie within the range 70-700 Hz.
The range of audibility of the signal from a whistle shall be determined by those
frequencies, which may include the fundamental and/or one or more higher
frequencies, which lie within the range 180-700 Hz (+/- 1%) for a vessel of 20
meters or more in length, or 180-2100 Hz (+/- 1%) for a vessel of less than 20
meters in length and which provide the sound pressure levels specified in
paragraph 1(c) below.
(b) Limits of fundamental frequencies
To ensure a wide variety of whistle characteristics, the fundamental frequency
of a whistle shall be between the following limits:
(i) 70-200 Hz, for a vessel 200 meters or more in length;
(ii) 130-350 Hz, for a vessel 75 meters but less than 200 meters in length;
(iii) 250-700 Hz, for a vessel less than 75 meters in length.
(c) Sound signal intensity and range of audibility
A whistle fitted in a vessel shall provide, in the direction of maximum intensity
of the whistle and at a distance of 1 meter from it, a sound pressure level in at
least one 1/3-octave band within the range of frequencies 180-700 Hz (+/- 1%)
for a vessel of 20 meters or more in length, or 180-2100 Hz (+/- 1%) for a vessel
of less than 20 meters in length, of not less than the appropriate figure given in
the table below.
The range of audibility in the table above is for information and is
approximately the range at which a whistle may be heard on its forward axis with
90 percent probability in conditions of still air on board a vessel having average
background noise level at the listening posts (taken to be 68 dB in the octave
band centered on 250 Hz and 63 dB in the octave band centered on 500 Hz).

128

—INLAND—
Annex III
33 CFR 86

Technical Details of Sound Signal Appliances
§ 86.01 Whistles.
(a) Frequencies and range of audibility. The fundamental frequency of the signal
shall lie within the range 70-700 Hz. The range of audibility of the signal from a
whistle shall be determined by those frequencies, which may include the
fundamental and/or one or more higher frequencies, which lie within the range
180-700 Hz (+/- 1%) for a vessel of 20 meters or more in length, or 180-2100
Hz (+/- 1%) for a vessel of less than 20 meters in length and which provide the
sound pressure levels specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) Limits of fundamental frequencies. To ensure a wide variety of whistle
characteristics, the fundamental frequency of a whistle shall be between the
following limits:
(i) 70-200 Hz, for a vessel 200 meters or more in length.
(ii) 130-350 Hz, for a vessel 75 meters but less than 200 meters in length.
(iii) 250-700 Hz, for a vessel less than 75 meters in length.
(c) Sound signal intensity and range of audibility.
A whistle fitted in a vessel shall provide, in the direction of maximum intensity
of the whistle and at a distance of 1 meter from it, a sound pressure level in at
least one 1/3 rd-octave band within the range of frequencies 180-700 Hz (+/- 1%)
for a vessel of 20 meters or more in length, or 180-2100 Hz (+/-1%) for a vessel
of less than 20 meters in length, of not less than the appropriate figure given in
Table 86.01(c) of this section. The range of audibility in Table 86.01(c) is the
approximate range at which a whistle may be heard on its forward axis with 90%
probability in conditions of still air on board a vessel having average background
noise level at the listening posts (taken to be 68 dB in the octave band centered
on 250 Hz and 63 dB in the octave band centered on 500 Hz). It is shown for
informational purposes only. In practice, the range at which a whistle may be
heard is extremely variable and depends critically on weather conditions; the
values given can be regarded as typical but under conditions of strong wind or
high ambient noise level at the listening post the range may be reduced.

129

—INTERNATIONAL—
Annex III—CONTINUED
1/3-octave band
level at
1 meter in dB
referred to 2x10-5
N/m2

Audibility range
in nautical miles

200 or more

143

2

75 but less than 200

138

1.5

20 but less than 75

130

1

Less than 20

120 *
115 †
111 ‡

0.5

Length of vessel
in meters

* When the measured frequencies lie within the range 180-450 Hz
† When the measured frequencies lie within the range 450-800 Hz

‡ When the measured frequencies lie within the range 800-2100 Hz

In practice the range at which a whistle may be heard is extremely variable and depends
critically on weather conditions; the values given can be regarded as typical but under
conditions of strong wind or high ambient noise level at the listening post the range may
be much reduced.

(d) Directional properties
The sound pressure level of a directional whistle shall be not more than 4 dB
below the prescribed sound pressure level on the axis at any direction in the
horizontal plane within ± 45 degrees of the axis. The sound pressure level at any
other direction in the horizontal plane shall be not more than 10 dB below the
prescribed sound pressure level on the axis, so that the range in any direction will
be at least half the range on the forward axis. The sound pressure level shall be
measured in that one-third octave band which determines the audibility range.
(e) Positioning of whistles
When a directional whistle is to be used as the only whistle on a vessel, it shall
be installed with its maximum intensity directed straight ahead.
A whistle shall be placed as high as practicable on a vessel, in order to reduce
interception of the emitted sound by obstructions and also to minimize hearing
damage risk to personnel. The sound pressure level of the vessel’s own signal at
listening posts shall not exceed 110 dB(A) and so far as practicable should not
exceed 100 dB(A).
(f) Fitting of more than one whistle
If whistles are fitted at a distance apart of more than 100 meters, it shall be so
arranged that they are not sounded simultaneously.

130

—INLAND—

Annex III—CONTINUED
Table 86.01(c)

1/3rd-octave band

level at
1 meter in dB
referred to
2x10-5 N/m2

Audibility range
in nautical miles

200 or more

143

2

75 but less than 200

138

1.5

20 but less than 75

130

1

Length of vessel in meters

1120

Less than 20

2115
3111

0.5

1 When the measured frequencies lie within the range 180-450 Hz.
2 When the measured frequencies lie within the range 450-800 Hz.

3 When the measured frequencies lie within the range 800-2100 Hz.

(d) Directional properties. The sound pressure level of a directional whistle shall
be not more than 4 dB below the sound pressure level specified in paragraph (c)
of this section, in any direction in the horizontal plane within ±45 degrees of the
forward axis. The sound pressure level of the whistle in any other direction in the
horizontal plane shall not be more than 10 dB less than the sound pressure level
specified for the forward axis, so that the range of audibility in any direction will
be at least half the range required on the forward axis. The sound pressure level
shall be measured in that one 1/3rd-octave band which determines the audibility
range.
(e) Positioning of whistles
(i) When a directional whistle is to be used as the only whistle on the vessel
and is permanently installed, it shall be installed with its forward axis
directed forward.
(ii) A whistle shall be placed as high as practicable on a vessel, in order to
reduce interception of the emitted sound by obstructions and also to
minimize hearing damage risk to personnel. The sound pressure level of the
vessel’s own signal at listening posts shall not exceed 110 dB(A) and so far
as practicable should not exceed 100 dB(A).
(f) Fitting of more than one whistle. If whistles are fitted at a distance apart of
more than 100 meters, they shall not be sounded simultaneously.

131

—INTERNATIONAL—
Annex III—CONTINUED

(g) Combined whistle systems
If due to the presence of obstructions the sound field of a single whistle or of
one of the whistles referred to in paragraph 1(f) above is likely to have a zone of
greatly reduced signal level, it is recommended that a combined whistle system
be fitted so as to overcome this reduction. For the purposes of the Rules a
combined whistle system is to be regarded as a single whistle. The whistles of a
combined system shall be located at a distance apart of not more than 100 meters
and arranged to be sounded simultaneously. The frequency of any one whistle
shall differ from those of the others by at least 10 Hz.

2. Bell or gong
(a) Intensity of signal
A bell or gong, or other device having similar sound characteristics shall
produce a sound pressure level of not less than 110 dB at a distance of 1 meter
from it.
(b) Construction
Bells and gongs shall be made of corrosion-resistant material and designed to
give a clear tone. The diameter of the mouth of the bell shall be not less than 300
mm for vessels of 20 meters or more in length. Where practicable, a power-driven
bell striker is recommended to ensure constant force but manual operation shall
be possible. The mass of the striker shall be not less than 3 percent of the mass
of the bell.
3. Approval
The construction of sound signal appliances, their performance and their
installation on board the vessel shall be to the satisfaction of the appropriate
authority of the State whose flag the vessel is entitled to fly.

132

—INLAND—

Annex III—CONTINUED
(g)Combined whistle systems
(i) A combined whistle system is a number of whistles (sound emitting
sources) operated together. For the purposes of the Rules in Subchapter E ‡
a combined whistle system is to be regarded as a single whistle.
(ii) The whistles of a combined system shall:
(1) Be located at a distance apart of not more than 100 meters;
(2) Be sounded simultaneously;
(3) Each have a fundamental frequency different from those of the others
by at least 10 Hz; and
(4) Have a tonal characteristic appropriate for the length of vessel which
shall be evidenced by at least two-thirds of the whistles in the combined
system having fundamental frequencies falling within the limits prescribed
in paragraph (b) of this section, or if there are only two whistles in the
combined system, by the higher fundamental frequency falling within the
limits prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.
NOTE TO PARAGRAPH (g): If, due to the presence of obstructions, the sound field of a
single whistle or of one of the whistles referred to in paragraph (f) of this section is likely
to have a zone of greatly reduced signal level, a combined whistle system should be fitted
so as to overcome this reduction.

(h)Towing vessel whistles. A power-driven vessel normally engaged in pushing
ahead or towing alongside may, at all times, use a whistle whose characteristic
falls within the limits prescribed by paragraph (b) of this section for the longest
customary composite length of the vessel and its tow.

§86.02 Bell or gong
(a) Intensity of signal. A bell or gong, or other device having similar sound
characteristics shall produce a sound pressure level of not less than 110 dB at 1
meter.
(b) Construction. Bells and gongs shall be made of corrosion-resistant material
and designed to give clear tone. The diameter of the mouth of the bell shall be
not less than 300 mm for vessels of 20 meters or more in length. Where
practicable, a power-driven bell striker is recommended to ensure constant force
but manual operation shall be possible. The mass of the striker shall be not less
than 3 percent of the mass of the bell.
§ 86.03 Approval. [Reserved]
‡ Parts 83-90 of Title 33 Code of Federal Regulations.

133

—INTERNATIONAL—
Annex IV

Distress Signals
1. The following signals, used or exhibited either together or separately, indicate
distress and need of assistance:
(a) a gun or other explosive signal fired at intervals of about a minute;
(b) a continuous sounding with any fog-signaling apparatus;
(c) rockets or shells, throwing red stars fired one at a time at short intervals;
(d) a signal made by any signaling method consisting of the group. . . – – – . . .
(SOS) in the Morse Code;
(e) a signal sent by radiotelephony consisting of the spoken word “Mayday”;
(f) the International Code Signal of distress indicated by N.C.;
(g) a signal consisting of a square flag having above or below it a ball or anything
resembling a ball;
(h) flames on the vessel (as from a burning tar barrel, oil barrel, etc.);
(i) a rocket parachute flare or a hand flare showing a red light;
(j) a smoke signal giving off orange-colored smoke;
(k) slowly and repeatedly raising and lowering arms outstretched to each side;
(l) a distress alert by means of digital selective calling (DSC) transmitted on:
(i) VHF channel 70, or
(ii) MF/HF on the frequencies 2187.5 kHz ‡, 8414.5 kHz, 4207.5 kHz, 6312
kHz, 12577 kHz or 16804.5 kHz;
(m) a ship-to-shore distress alert transmitted by the ship’s Inmarsat or other
mobile satellite service provider ship earth station;
(n) signals transmitted by emergency position-indicating radio beacons;
(o) approved signals transmitted by radiocommunication systems, including
survival craft radar transponders.

2. The use or exhibition of any of the foregoing signals except for the purpose of
indicating distress and need of assistance and the use of other signals which may be
confused with any of the above signals is prohibited.
3. Attention is drawn to the relevant sections of the International Code of Signals,
the International Aeronautical and Maritime Search and Rescue Manual, Volume III,
and the following signals:
(a) a piece of orange-colored canvas with either a black square and circle or other
appropriate symbol (for identification from the air);
(b) a dye marker.
‡ The U.S. Coast Guard terminated monitoring DSC safety and distress frequency 2187.5 kHz on
August 1, 2013. (78 FR 42102).

134

—INLAND—
Annex IV
33 CFR 87

Distress Signals
§ 87.1 Need of assistance
The following signals, used or exhibited either together or separately, indicate distress
and need of assistance:
(a) A gun or other explosive signal fired at intervals of about a minute;
(b) A continuous sounding with any fog-signaling apparatus;
(c) Rockets or shells, throwing red stars fired one at a time at short intervals;
(d) A signal made by any method consisting of the group . . . – – – . . . (SOS) in
the Morse Code;
(e) A signal sent by radiotelephony consisting of the spoken word “Mayday”;
(f) The International Code Signal of distress indicated by N.C.;
(g) A signal consisting of a square flag having above or below it a ball or anything
resembling a ball;
(h) Flames on the vessel (as from a burning tar barrel, oil barrel, etc.);
(i) A rocket parachute flare or a hand flare showing a red light;
(j) A smoke signal giving off orange-colored smoke;
(k) Slowly and repeatedly raising and lowering arms outstretched to each side;
(l) A distress alert by means of digital selective calling (DSC) transmitted on:
(i) VHF channel 70, or
(ii) MF/HF on the frequencies 2187.5 kHz ‡, 8414.5 kHz, 4207.5 kHz,
6312 kHz, 12577 kHz or 16804.5 kHz;
(m) A ship-to-shore distress alert transmitted by the ship’s Inmarsat or other
mobile satellite service provider ship earth station;
(n) Signals transmitted by emergency position-indicating radio beacons;
(o) Signals transmitted by radiocommunication systems, including survival craft
radar transponders meeting the requirements of 47 CFR 80.109; and
(p) A high intensity white light flashing at regular intervals from 50 to 70 times per
minute.
§ 87.02 Exclusive use. The use or exhibition of any of the foregoing signals except
for the purpose of indicating distress and need of assistance and the use of other
signals which may be confused with any of the above signals is prohibited.
§ 87.03 Supplemental signals. Attention is drawn to the relevant sections of the
International Code of Signals, the International Aeronautical and Maritime Search
and Rescue Manual, Volume III, the International Telecommunication Union Radio
Regulations, and the following signals:
(a) A piece of orange-colored canvas with either a black square and circle or other
appropriate symbol (for identification from the air);
(b) A dye marker.
‡ The U.S. Coast Guard terminated monitoring DSC safety and distress frequency 2187.5 kHz on
August 1, 2013. (78 FR 42102).

135

—INTERNATIONAL—

[BLANK]

136

—INLAND—
Annex V
33 CFR 88
Pilot Rules

§ 88.01 Purpose and applicability
This Part applies to all vessels operating on United States inland waters and to
United States vessels operating on the Canadian waters of the Great Lakes to the
extent there is no conflict with Canadian law.
§ 88.03 Definitions
The terms used in this part have the same meaning as the terms defined in Part
83 of this subchapter.
§ 88.05 Law enforcement vessels
(a) Law enforcement vessels may display a flashing blue light when engaged in
direct law enforcement or public safety activities. This light must be located so
that it does not interfere with the visibility of the vessel’s navigation lights.
(b) The blue light described in this section may be displayed by law
enforcement vessels of the United States and the States and their political
subdivisions.
§ 88.07 Public Safety Activities
(a) Vessels engaged in government sanctioned public safety activities, and
commercial vessels performing similar functions, may display an alternately
flashing red and yellow light signal. This identification light signal must be located
so that it does not interfere with the visibility of the vessel’s navigation lights. The
identification light signal may be used only as an identification signal and conveys
no special privilege. Vessels using the identification light signal during public
safety activities must abide by the Inland Navigation Rules, and must not presume
that the light or the exigency gives them precedence or right of way.
(b) Public safety activities include but are not limited to patrolling marine
parades, regattas, or special water celebrations; traffic control; salvage;
firefighting; medical assistance; assisting disabled vessels; and search and rescue.

137

—INTERNATIONAL—
INTERPRETATIVE RULES
33 CFR 82

§ 82.1 Purpose
This part contains the interpretative rules concerning the 72 COLREGS that
are adopted by the Coast Guard for the guidance of the public.
§ 82.3 Pushing vessel and vessel being pushed: Composite unit
Rule 24(b) of the 72 COLREGS states that when a pushing vessel and a vessel
being pushed ahead are rigidly connected in a composite unit, they are regarded
as a power-driven vessel and must exhibit the lights under Rule 23. A “composite
unit” is interpreted to be a pushing vessel that is rigidly connected by mechanical
means to a vessel being pushed so they react to sea and swell as one vessel.
“Mechanical means” does not include the following:
(a) Lines.
(b) Hawsers.
(c) Wires.
(d) Chains.
§ 82.5 Lights for moored vessels
For the purposes of Rule 30 of the 72 COLREGS, a vessel at anchor includes a
barge made fast to one or more mooring buoys or other similar device attached
to the sea or river floor. Such a barge may be lighted as a vessel at anchor in
accordance with Rule 30, or may be lighted on the corners in accordance with 33
CFR 83.30(h) through (l).
§ 82.7 Sidelights for unmanned barges
An unmanned barge being towed may use the exception of COLREGS Rule
24(h). However, this exception only applies to the vertical sector requirements.

138

—INLAND—

INTERPRETATIVE RULES
33 CFR 90
§ 90.1 Purpose
This part contains the interpretative rules for the Inland Rules. These
interpretative rules are intended as a guide to assist the public and promote
compliance with the Inland Rules.
§ 90.3 Pushing vessel and vessel being pushed: Composite unit
Rule 24(b) of the Inland Rules states that when a pushing vessel and a vessel
being pushed ahead are rigidly connected in a composite unit, they are regarded
as a power-driven vessel and must exhibit the lights prescribed in Rule 23. A
“composite unit” is interpreted to be the combination of a pushing vessel and a
vessel being pushed ahead that are rigidly connected by mechanical means so they
react to sea and swell as one vessel. Mechanical means does not include lines,
wires, hawsers, or chains.

§ 90.5 Lights for moored vessels
A vessel at anchor includes a vessel made fast to one or more mooring buoys
or other similar device attached to the ocean floor. Such vessels may be lighted
as a vessel at anchor in accordance with Rule 30, or may be lighted on the corners
in accordance with 33 CFR 83.30(h) through (l).
§ 90.7 Sidelights for unmanned barges
An unmanned barge being towed may use the exception of COLREGS Rule
24(h). However, this exception only applies to the vertical sector requirements.

139

